Imagine for a moment that you're planning a road trip.
You have everything you need.
A map, a car, and plenty of fuel.
Before you start the engine, though, you need to know your destination, wouldn't you agree?
If you don't know where you're trying to go, you won't know which road to take.
The same is true of our ministry, which is, in a sense, like that road trip.
As Acts 1348 shows, we're always searching for those who are rightly disposed for ever-lasting life.
We have everything we need for the journey, including all the tools in our teaching toolbox.
But what would you say is our destination?
What's the most important goal that we're trying to accomplish in our ministry?
Is it placing literature?
Directing people to JW.org, making return visits, starting Bible studies, educating people about the Bible,
or making disciples of Christ Jesus and baptizing them.
Each of those goals has value, but which one is our primary goal?
What's the destination that we want to reach?
Jesus identified it at Matthew, chapter 28, and verses 19 and 20.
There he said, go therefore and make disciples of people of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit,
teaching them to observe all the things I have commanded you.
Our destination, then, is a baptized disciple.
Each person we meet, each piece of literature that we place, each time we direct attention to the website, each return visit we make, each Bible study we conduct.
We should have the final goal of making a baptized disciple.
Why is baptism essential?
Put simply, it's because baptism is necessary for salvation.
That's what the Bible tells us at 1 Peter, chapter 3, and verse 21.
Baptism is also now saving you, not by the removing of the filth of the flesh, but by the request of God for a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
So, from the time we meet an interested person, we want to have our eyes on that goal of making a baptized disciple.
In fact, the November 1977 Kingdom Ministry made this statement regarding those we study with.
Our discussions should reflect a genuine personal interest in the student as a potential disciple, and therefore a potential brother or sister in the faith.
If we don't have that endpoint of a baptized disciple, fixed firmly in mind, we could end up stuck on side roads.
For example, watch this video and see if you can identify the problem that our brother has.
Going out and fill service after lunch?
Yes, I'm going to be there, but I've got going to visit that guy to make.
My neighbor lost his job after 20 years, and as a result, he's got to move out of his house, got to move into an apartment.
He decided to go help him out a little bit to pack up.
Make a little easier for him to make that move.
You know, want to be nice a time period where we don't have to worry about economic troubles like that.
Yeah, it will.
You know, that's why I'm so happy that my grandchildren chose to go for higher education.
They both landed good job on that bridge that you cross when you come here.
You've noticed that they're starting to do some work on it, and that's pretty extensive work.
They're going to replace that whole bridge.
So, according to the newspaper article, it's going to be like a six to eight month project.
It's a long time.
Chris, the reason I came by is I wanted to show you this magazine.
I love these. They're so well written.
Isaiah 48, 17, is a key scripture here.
Notice what it says.
I, Jehovah, am your God, the one teaching you to benefit yourself.
That's familiar. I think your dad read that to me once or twice.
How's your dad doing anyway?
Doing good?
They said they've got more Bible saves than they can even cover in one week.
Well, well.
You know, I can remember when you and your dad came here, and you were a little kid about this high.
And you just stayed right by our side, and your dad was so proud.
You know, Chris, I know my dad had offered to stay the Bible with you in the past.
John, be honest, I'm too old to change.
I said in my ways now, I think that God's just going to have to take me the way I am.
Or chocolate.
Yeah.
Could you identify with the brother in that video?
Have you ever had a return visit with someone who just loves your company?
Perhaps you've been leaving literature with that person for months, even years.
And yet the person has no genuine interest in progressing.
Why is that a problem?
Apparently, the person isn't interested in becoming a disciple of Christ Jesus.
Our time would be better spent searching for other people who are rightly disposed for everlasting life.
Of course, that doesn't mean that there's no value in placing literature or leaving contact cards that direct people to JW.org.
These provisions are part of our teaching toolbox for a reason.
They can play a vital role in reaching the hearts of those who are rightly disposed.
So, continue to make good use of these tools that Jehovah's Organization provides.
At the same time, never lose sight of your goal to start Bible studies with interested ones
and then the ultimate goal to make disciples baptizing them.
What about a person you've been studying with for years?
But the person isn't making changes.
Hasn't stopped going to church and shows no real interest in attending Christian meetings.
Some people are glad to study the Bible with us simply for the fact that they value Bible education.
And we love to teach people about the Bible.
But we have to remember that providing Bible education for its own sake is not our primary goal.
In fact, it could be a side road.
The fact is, some people who value Bible education are not interested in becoming baptized disciples of Jesus.
The world's full of Bible scholars who are highly educated in the Bible,
but who do not become disciples of Christ Jesus.
For example, one Bible scholar was educated at a Bible Institute, a religious college, and a theological seminary.
He holds a doctorate in religious studies.
He has a thorough knowledge of biblical Greek, and he's written 30 books about the Bible.
Yet he describes himself as an agnostic atheist.
So, just providing Bible education is not our primary goal.
We want people to build faith in God and to have their own relationship with Jehovah
that will move them toward the destination of dedication and baptism.
That's why it's important to honestly analyze the progress of our Bible students.
Are they simply taking in knowledge?
Do they prepare in advance for the study?
Do they answer in their own words?
From their heart, are they making changes in their life to conform to what they've learned?
Are they attending and benefiting from Christian meetings?
If not, we may need to follow the advice of the Kingdom Ministry of October 1988, which stated,
that a student is not making meaningful progress after you've patiently aided him over a reasonable period of time.
It may be best to use the time to better advantage searching for deserving ones.
Depending on the circumstances, it may be wise to discontinue the study.
But why is it so important to be selective about who we spend our time with?
Isn't conducting an unproductive study better than knocking on doors where no one's home or where no one shows interest?
To answer that, let's read Jesus' words at Matthew chapter 10 verses 11 to 13.
Now, when instructing his disciples about how to conduct their ministry, Jesus said,
into whatever city or village you enter, search out who in it is deserving and stay there until you leave.
When you enter the house, greet the household.
If the house is deserving, let the peace you wish it come upon it.
But if it is not deserving, let the peace from you return upon you.
In harmony with those verses, we want to focus our attention on deserving ones.
As Jesus instructed, people who are rightly disposed for everlasting life.
Obviously, there is a balance.
We need to be patient with those we call on and study with, and not everyone progresses at the same rate.
But as we call on people and study with them, we should never lose sight of our goal, our destination, to make disciples baptizing them.
If we have that goal clearly in mind, we'll know when we are moving toward it, and we'll know when we are getting sidetracked.
We could illustrate it like this.
Think of a plane on a runway.
That plane is like a person you visited, and you believe shows sincere interest in the Bible's message.
Your short-term goal at this point is to get them off the runway and into a Bible study.
If you do, that means the plane is taken off.
But once your study is airborne, you have to keep your sights on your destination.
You can't just stay in the air indefinitely.
Your goal is to make a baptized disciple.
If in a reasonable amount of time the student isn't progressing, what will you do?
To keep the study going would be like flying in circles.
In the same way, a Bible study that simply suspended in the air goes nowhere.
We have to land the plane either at the destination of a baptized disciple or at the termination of the study.
But what if something's holding your Bible student back from the destination of baptism?
Maybe an attachment to holiday celebrations or an unclean habit like smoking?
Notice how this issue arises in the following brief video.
When I started studying the Bible, there were various factors that hindered my study.
I was a truck driver and I was on the road a lot.
I had the worst kind of friendships and I smoked.
I smoked an average 60 cigarettes a day.
I realized that if I was going to make the needed adjustments, I had to change my profession.
So I changed my job, but if I wanted to get baptized, I had to stop smoking.
I cut down to two or three cigarettes a day.
One day I bought a single cigarette.
I lit it and I prated your hover.
I begged him to help me and he did help me.
So much so that I never smoked again.
And to this day, I don't even have the urge to smoke.
Ten years after my first Bible study, I was baptized.
I've been serving Jehovah for 20 years now, along with my wife and all my children.
Did you notice this man had to pray to Jehovah to get the help he needed to overcome smoking?
In other words, he had to cultivate his own relationship with Jehovah in order to build the faith he needed to stop smoking.
In the same way, we need to help our students to build their own relationship with Jehovah so that they'll also overcome any obstacles that might hold them back from progressing to baptism.
But what if you're not presently conducting a Bible study?
What if you've never had the privilege of having one of your Bible students get baptized?
Does that mean your service to Jehovah is not valuable?
Not at all.
Remember, we each do our part in the ministry.
Do you remember what the Apostle Paul said at 1 Corinthians 3, 6 and 7?
I planted a Paulus watered, but God kept making it grow so that neither is the one who plants anything nor is the one who waters, but God who makes it grow.
So never feel that your efforts are unimportant.
Just as Paul said, what's accomplished in the ministry is a group effort.
When a person reaches baptism, it isn't just because of the effort of the person who conducted the study, the efforts of others played a role.
Perhaps someone else initiated that person's interest by placing literature or in some other way giving a witness.
But remember what Paul said.
Jehovah is the one who makes it grow.
He's the one that's drawing to himself those who are rightly disposed for everlasting life.
What a privilege we have to be fellow workers with Jehovah as we help people become disciples of Christ Jesus.
If we keep that goal clearly in mind, how will it help us?
We won't be content just to place literature or just to direct interest to JW.org.
We won't be satisfied just making return visits or starting Bible studies.
We'll always have in mind our primary destination, making disciples of Christ and baptizing them.
We of the governing body wish you Jehovah's rich blessing as you work shoulder to shoulder with us in helping rightly disposed ones become baptized disciples of Jesus.